the word yoga is derived from Sanskrit
and ancient Indian language it means the
union of body and mind yoga began in
India more than 3,000 years ago and is
still practiced for the help of your
mind body and soul a morning practice of
yoga is a great way to get energized for
the rest of the day embarking on the
path of yoga is your first step towards
self-discovery it's going to be a
fulfilling and a liberating experience
once you take the step it will reap
rewards for a lifetime in other words
you're doing yoga to achieve Stillness
and Clarity of mind now let's look at
some of the common problems and see how
yoga can help us overcome these
problems one of the common health
disorders that people suffer especially
women is
thyroid the ASA which is beneficial to
cure thyroid is called
WRA it not just cures thyroid it also
lends flexibility to the spine and
strengthens the Cal
muscles sit in
dandasana now fold your legs and sit on
your
heels keep the thighs close and the big
toes touching place the hand on the
knees your head should be back and
straight stand on your
knees and place the hands on the waist
with your fingers pointing
downwards bend the head back and St
stretch the neck muscles inhale and bend
the trunk towards as much as
possible if you can reach the heels you
can place your hands on them and bend
backwards remain in this posture for 10
to 30 seconds with normal
breathing return with inhalation sit in
vajrasana and
relax diabetes is another common disease
in men women and even children vakrasana
or the spinal twist pose is beneficial
in stimulating the pancreas and helps in
the management of
diabetes sit in
dandasana Bend the right leg and place
the right foot beside the left knee as
you exhale twist the body to the right
bring the left arm around the right knee
and clasp the right leg and and place
the Palm beside the right foot remain in
this posture for 10 to 30 seconds with
normal breathing and
relax repeat the same thing on the other
side depression and anxiety is caused
from the stress of working for long
hours lack of sleep and irregular food
habits sat basana helps relieve
depression and anxiety Bend both the
legs at the knees and bring the heels
near the buttcks
hold both the ankles firmly and keep the
knees and feet in one straight line
inhale slowly and raise your buttocks
and trunk as much as you can to form a
bridge remain in this position for 10 to
30 seconds with normal breathing
[Music]
exhale slowly and return to the original
position and
relax untimely meals and quick access to
junk food leads to wind or
flatulence Pavan mtasa helps remove
constipation and gives relief from gas
decreases the bloating sensation in the
abdomen and also AIDS digestion lie down
flat on the back bend your right knee
interlock the fingers and clasp the shin
below the
knees exhale rise the head till your
chin touches the knees and
relax this is
pavanamuktasana bring the head back to
the ground while exhaling lower the leg
to
the repeat the same with the other leg
[Music]
in the final position raise both your
legs bend your knees clasp your fingers
exhale and bring your nose to your knee
and hold this position for 10 to 30
seconds inhale push your head back
release your legs and
relax do you often suffer from cold
sinusitis asthma and bronchial
infections kapal Pati p ifies the
frontal air sinus and helps to overcome
cold disorders it also rejuvenates the
whole body and keeps the face young and
vibrant sit in any meditative posture
close the eyes and relax the holy
body inhale deeply through both nostrils
and expand the chest expel the breath
with forceful contractions of the
abdominal
muscles complete 30 rapid breaths
then take a deep breath and exhale
slowly and
relax repeat two more
rounds nadishana or anuloma pranayam is
is practiced right after kapal it helps
your body rejuvenate and thums
oxygen the right hand should be in
nasika mudra keep the left P inanam
mudra breathe in from the left nostril
then close the left nostril with the
small and ring fingers and release the
thumb from the right nostril exhale to
the right
nostril next inhale through the right
nostril at the end of inhalation close
the right nostril open the left nostril
and exhale through
[Music]
it repeat five rounds a shapely and
supple body body is important for one's
well-being 3one ASA is
beneficial to help strengthen calf thigh
and waist muscles it also makes the
spine flexible and improves lung
capacity stand with your feet
comfortably
apart slowly raise both the arms
sideways till they are
horizontal exhale slowly Bend to the
right side and place the right hand just
behind the right foot the left arm is
straight up in line with the right arm
turn the left palm
forward remain in this posture for 10 to
30 seconds with normal breathing repeat
the same for the left
side doing yoga is therapeutic but at
the same time you must remember that it
is not a competition and you have to
closely listen to your body and act
accordingly regular practice will make
you more confident your body more subtle
your mind more focused to practice
Advanced Arenas patience is a virtue
especially in the practice of yoga the
one hour that you will commit in the
practice of yoga is not just going to
give you a healthy body but also a
healthy mind yoga will pave your way to
a balanced approach in life and break
you free from all physical
pain wishing you all a very happy
International World yoga day
keep practicing and stay healthy
[Music]